Hey YouTube, hey Jason.
Hey, hi Michael.
Hi, hi Jason's dog.
What's your dog's name back there?
That is Monsier Bleu.
Monsier Bleu, ah, beautiful.
Just hanging out, I love it.
Yeah, he's a good boy.
He's my co-worker.
He's actually wearing a bow tie too.
Fantastic, yeah.
I have my dog, Rocket, who likes to hang out
and be part of the podcast and other live streams
periodically.
And sometimes chew up random things
in the background when I'm not paying attention
that she shouldn't, but it's all good.
Dogs are great.
So welcome to the show.
Everyone out there watching the live stream,
please put your thoughts and comments in chat.
I can already see Diego's put some in there
and we'll try to make them part of the show
when they find a place to fit them in in the topic.
And with that, Jason, you ready?
- Yeah, let's do this.
- Yeah, for sure.
Jason, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Thank you for having me.
- Yeah, it's great to have you here on the show.
I'm looking forward to talking about a bunch of things
I wish people taught you about Python sooner.
I think there are many, many things
that fall into that category.
And part of that, I guess it's true with all languages,
but I think it's maybe a little extra true in Python
because getting started is so easy,
but getting really good at it
takes a lifetime sort of thing, you know?
And so there's like this big mismatch
of how accessible it feels, but then what you can get out of it
if you go further.
So I think that we'll touch on that going further apart maybe.
Absolutely.
Yeah, for sure.
Now, before we get into all those things,
let's start with your story.
How did you get into programming in Python?
Well, I got into programming by a route
that I don't recommend to anybody.
I fell down a staircase, hit my head on the banister,
and ended all hopes of ever becoming a doctor.
Oh.
So went from 4.0, straight A student,
college level reading in high school,
to failing in pre-K material.
Took me two extra years to climb back up
where I was academically a bit longer
after that for other things.
But somewhere along the way,
I discovered that I had a natural inclination
towards an enact for coding.
And got into that because I wanted to make games.
I wanted to make educational games.
They had been part of my recovery.
I want to make games.
So I learned how to code.
And so I taught myself VB.net
and then felt very constrained by the .net ecosystem
and broke out into Python.
And found my home, stayed put until I,
well, wound up going to a bunch of other languages.
I used Flash for quite some time, I used C++.
I muck about in whatever's handy,
but Python is definitely near to dear to my heart.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Well, if you started out in VB.net,
I think it's a little less true these days,
but in the earlier days,
that was a really different ecosystem than Python, right?
There was like, well, what is the framework
for this thing that Microsoft recommends?
Like, how do I do the web?
I do ASP.net, 'cause that's what they provide me.
How do I do database?
I do this because that's what they provide me.
And you come into Python, you're like,
wait, there's a thousand different ways to do this.
And I have to pick and decide, and I can mix and match.
And it gets both amazing and like, I don't know.
- Terrifying.
yeah, it's terrible, like, what if I make the wrong choice?
How do I decide?
I have no basis, right?
I'm both new, so I have no basis for deciding,
but I also, I've got to decide to get started,
so where do we go, right?
Like, it's a different world.
- It is.
It definitely is.
And I think where I first started running into trouble
with the paradox that I wound up addressing in my book,
we'll come back to that,
but the paradox that a lot of people find themselves in
like, I know all this stuff, but I don't know enough to do this
thing. And so you wind up with this weird little gap in a lot
of training material, because you have like the absolute basic
elementary and the examples there are almost insultingly
simplistic. It's like, oh, you just have to type this stuff
into into into this file and run the file and look at that you
have a hello world. Aren't you smart. And then you go all the
way to the other extreme and it's something like super
complicated. You don't understand any of it. And nobody
sat and read wrote down here's how you structure a multi Python
project in a way that's gonna at least when I started, that
wasn't documented anywhere, like no one had ever written it down.
So it's just like, what do I do now?
Yeah, it's really tricky. A lot of the tutorials and stuff are
like, you just put all this stuff into one file. And then
it's magic. And you should never ever do that. Well, maybe in
simple cases, but yeah, super in realistic apps, like, no
realistic app belongs in one file, like, just like you
wouldn't have one function or just like no functions, right?
You're like, not really.
That's not how you do it.
So there is this--
even when you're sort of hunting through tutorials,
there is this mismatch of the simple way to show it,
the simplest way to show it, and then maybe how you should.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, exactly.
The example I've given is that there's two types of book/article/tutorial
out there.
Here's basics of variables, boys and girls.
And then the next level after that is,
here's how to program a natural language recognition OCR AI
machine learning on a Raspberry Pi
and your grandmother's base are running on a potato battery.
And there's nothing in between.
- Yeah.
Yeah, that's true.
It does make it quite challenging.
All right.
How about now?
What are you up to?
- These days, oh gosh.
I'm actually kind of veering these days more into,
actually more into kind of the facilitation business
analyst side of things more.
Interestingly, in the last couple of years,
that's become a point of particular interest.
But in terms of coding, I'm working
on some interesting projects at work,
building an API for an internal project.
And that's been fun getting to get my hands dirty
with FastAPI and SQLAlchemy.
And that's been fairly enjoyable.
So that's been the majority of my programming bandwidth
lately.
But it's fun.
it's the sort of project you hope you're going to get at work
because it's an interesting topic,
you have enough love--
leeway, that's the word I'm looking for, enough leeway to do things right
and do things to some degree your way if you can justify it well enough.
I'm a tech lead on it, so I'm able to make sure
we're making good decisions early and paying down technical debt
and building something that's really, really cool.
So it's a fun project I'm enjoying.
- Yeah, those kinds of projects, they're fun,
but they're also important, right?
Like if your work, if you work,
let me put it this way, if you work at a place
where they say, you know, you need to use
10 year old technology and there's no opportunity
to try new things like FastAPI and others,
what you end up with is a whole bunch of people
who that work there who don't wanna learn
any new technologies and are not deeply passionate
about programming and it's kind of
the self-fulfilling prophecy.
And I think, you know, it's cool that the place
you're working at allows that, right?
Because I think it's one of the signs of a healthy tech,
not necessarily a startup or whatever,
but all these companies have like small software teams
within it, it's a sign of a healthy small software team,
even if it's just building internal software.
- Oh, definitely, yeah.
And you know, and there's a place for older technology
well it's good to be well-versed in both and be able to move between it but I
mean yeah if you're if you're just stuck in the past then you either like you
said get a lot of people that are afraid of change or are really wanting that
change and they're dissatisfied of the fact they can't get it but on the other
hand if you just if you're only new technology you'll just spontaneously
combust because you can't you know there's just there's so much constant
invention and reinvention and research and unexpected bugs and blockers and
and whatever, it's like, sometimes the nice thing
about a 10 year old library is that there's less bugs
because it's 10 years old.
- You can find documentation about issues or whatever.
You know, they have a term, it's like a term
in the software industry about this constant churn
that's like going too quick,
and especially not appreciating stuff that's been around,
it's called JavaScript.
(laughing)
- You're not wrong, JavaScript is the embodiment
of shiny object syndrome.
- It is, I'm not bashing on JavaScript per se,
but the life cycle of some of these frameworks
is just so brief, it's nuts.
- Everybody wanted to use Deno for about 10 minutes,
I remember that.
There was a thousand articles a minute on Deno
and now we've moved on to other things.
Well, I mean, it's funny because you get a new technology,
like, okay, the topic of the minute, ChatGPT,
and everybody on LinkedIn is an expert in ChatGPT.
Have you noticed that?
Every other post is about ChatGPT.
It's like, well, it's interesting,
but it's just a bit early and the early adopters
have a lot of egg they're still trying to wash off their face
in the last six paths.
So it's like, let's see what happens,
but chances are this is just an early hiccup.
- Yeah, for sure.
So you mentioned FastAPI and SQLAlchemy
and Yasser out there says SQLAlchemy is the best library.
So SQLAlchemy is pretty great.
And it's cool to see my Bayer and crew updated to 2.0
and add async and await to it and stuff.
But there's also, especially when you're in Pydantic world,
say with FastAPI,
you know, there's a SQL model
also from Sebastian Ramirez that says,
"Hey, we are already doing Pydantic for the API
"or front end exchange."
Like, what about making that your database?
Did you all evaluate or consider SQL model?
- I did.
And it's one of those things like, this would be great.
And I think we can move towards that later.
But sometimes when you're paying down technical debt,
you have to make a distinction between,
do I want to make the monthly payment
as if we're more than a monthly payment,
or do I wanna try and pay it all off in one thing?
And sometimes when you're having to budget that time,
for us, it made the most sense to migrate from the 1.0
that we were working with earlier on
to using the SQLAlchemy 2.
And so there was a relatively smaller set of changes
that we needed to make.
- I see.
- Moving to something like a school model would have,
would be great, but it would also require us
to rewrite some major things.
And so that's one of those things is like,
well, this might be a good option.
I mean, it looks really cool,
but let's defer that for right now
so that we can actually get some stuff done.
It's a constant balancing act.
Like do we pay down technical debt or build new features?
And the answer is yes.
You have to do both,
but you have to keep it in balance.
Pay down the credit card,
but also make sure you're buying your groceries.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I feel like if you wanted to go that way,
the change is pretty straightforward,
but if you already have it all set up in the other way,
again, it's like, eh, what is the value?
Just one thing that kind of timely as of a couple days ago,
let's see, as of two days ago,
the Pydantic folks, Samuel Colvin and Terrence Dorsey
posted, "Hey, we're excited to announce the first alpha
of Pydantic v2."
And I had Samuel on like a year ago
to talk about what they were doing there.
But the big news is, the headline news in here is
they rewrote much of the core of Pydantic in Rust.
And now Pydantic version two is five to 50 times faster.
- Nice.
- That's cool, right?
- That's gorgeous.
Thank you.
This is just put more work on my plate.
That's okay.
(laughing)
This'll be good.
I'll have to bring this up at work.
It's like, "Hey, we should look at this later."
But-
- Yeah, I mean, I don't think that there's any,
I don't think anything will,
obviously nothing will change for your SQLAlchemy side,
but even for FastAPI,
I'm sure that this is gonna get rolled in in a smooth way.
But it does mean that all that data exchange
should just go way, way faster,
which for basically no effort on users of things
like FastAPI, and SQL model, and Beanie, and all those.
So that's cool news.
- Yeah, definitely.
That is neat.
- Yeah.
Other than the fact that if you do a lot of work
in directly in Pydantic models,
there might be a few small breaking changes.
But let's talk about our things,
the things we wish someone had explained to us sooner.
- Yes.
- I guess we can start with this.
Like these things were motivated.
We can come back and talk a bit more about this at the end,
but they're motivated.
This whole conversation was motivated by sort of this big,
long book that you wrote here, "Dead Simple Python."
Give people the elevator pitch and then we'll get to it.
- Yeah, exactly.
So "Dead Simple Python" is the book I wish I had.
And yeah, it's, I get teased a lot.
It's like dead simple and it's that thick,
but it's dead simple in the same way that Python is obvious.
It's obvious retrospectively.
Things are dead simple.
Once you understand it, you look back and go,
Oh, okay, that click, that just makes sense.
A lot of things in Python are like that.
You look into it, it's like, that looks really complicated.
How is this async supposed to work?
And then you look back and go, oh, that's all?
Okay, no, that's-- - Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Why was I afraid?
Why did I put off learning this for six months?
- Exactly.
It's, you know, things look more intimidating
than they are in practice.
But basically this is the book for those,
already know another programming language.
Or maybe they've even been working with Python for awhile
like they're familiar with the basics. They do not want to
have their hand held through the you know this is what a
variable is and this is what a function is. I don't think
they've been through this probably more times than they
want to admit to and they want to get into what's different
about Python and how to use Python as Python. I think
I think that's kind of the core of the book is there's a big difference between Python code that works
and Python code that makes the most of the language and its patterns, what we would refer to as "Pythonic code."
And there's a big difference between the two because it's very tempting to come in and write Python as
BB.net in my case because that's where I started, or write Python as C, or write Python as Java, or write Python as Ruby.
and we wind up holding ourselves back and having really convoluted and hard to maintain code
because we don't understand the patterns.
So the approach I took with the book is, let me explain why we do things this way.
Let's go all the way down into the internals and how this actually works under the hood.
So by the time you get to the for loop, the with statement, the meta class or whatever,
you're like, oh, I understand what this is, why it's there, how it's used, and when not to use it.
Yeah, that's a great service.
So you're saying if I created a class called like
user factory and it implemented I user factory
and then I would use dependency injects,
I might be doing that wrong?
- You might be writing C# in Python.
- Yeah, indeed.
- Yeah. - Right, indeed.
All right, cool.
So I like the idea of it.
Let's talk, let's go through the topics.
We both contributed a little bit, mostly.
I'll throw in a few if we got extra time.
The first one has to do with this,
I guess, really early stage writing code,
like how to create variables.
What are the deals with types and variables,
but also types and objects?
Tell us about that.
- Yeah, exactly.
How names and values actually work.
And this is something that I had to learn early,
but I didn't fully understand.
So when I first logged into the Python IRC room,
back when I learned this language, you know,
back in the cretaceous period,
I logged in and I, you know,
I'm coming from a strongly type background.
So I'm saying, okay, so how do I declare a data type
on a variable?
'Cause I'm used to VB,
like a dim and the name of the variable
and the type equals whatever.
How do I declare the type?
This is before type hints existed.
And one of the guys in the room goes, you're a data type.
And I'm like, sorry, what?
And then he goes on to explain,
well, it doesn't quite work this way in Python,
but I didn't realize just how different it was.
So because I just sort of had this vague,
like, oh, you just have the name equals the value of cool,
type still seems kind of important.
Maybe I should start doing Hungarian notation.
Don't do that.
(laughing)
- That's Z, user name.
- No, exactly.
Exactly, int age or whatever.
- Yeah.
- And I thought I was being super clever and I wasn't,
but eventually someone explained to me,
I think it was actually Ned Batchelder,
someone gave me the link to Ned Batchelder's talk on this,
is that Python's variables work very differently
than other languages,
so much so that some smart alecks like to say,
well, Python doesn't really have variables.
Yes, it does, but they're variables in a different sense.
You have names which are just like, they're like labels,
and you can call it whatever you want,
but a name has a scope, you know?
So the name exists in the context of your whole program
or in the context of your function or whatever.
And a name can be bound to whatever you want.
You imagine drawing, you know,
basically having this label on a corkboard,
think like a conspiracy theorist corkboard.
You know, you have the tack and the label,
and then you put a little string around it,
and you tie that string to this other thing over here.
And that's your value.
Your value has a type.
It has, it is one thing.
It's a Boolean, or it is an integer,
or it is a string, or it is a list.
- We've all seen the error,
cannot combine integer and string with plus operation.
Like they know what they are, right?
- Exactly.
Those values know what they are.
And that's something that throws people off
coming from JavaScript where everything's weakly typed.
It'll just try to coerce them together.
Python says, "Hey, these two values are different.
"I'm not gonna try and figure this out."
But that's because it's working with the values.
The values have type, but the values don't have scope.
And this is where people get thrown off.
because if you say, you know, let's say,
I'm gonna use the example here, x equals spam.
If you were to say z equals x,
you're binding z to the same value as x.
And then if you decide to change z, that works.
X is unchanged, z is changed.
You might think, oh, cool, okay, this is just,
it just made a copy.
Not exactly, because we have this whole thing
about mutable and immutable types.
Some things can't be changed.
Boolean, an integer, a string, a tuple, they're not changed.
The value is never modified in memory.
A new thing is made instead.
But then some, and by some I mean most,
sorry about my clock,
most types of Python, like lists and dictionaries
and the objects that you're creating
with your fancy little classes are mutable.
So if you create a list or a dictionary
and you bind that to two different names,
you modify, you add a value to that list.
It doesn't matter which of the names you use,
you're modifying the value in memory, in place.
And now that is accessible from either of those names.
- Yeah.
- And that can be confusing,
especially when you start to understand
that functions don't pass by value,
they don't pass by reference,
they just bind the value to the name of that argument.
Pass by assignment is what we usually call it.
So you're just having one more handle,
one more alias pointing to that value in memory.
So if you change on that argument,
you're just changing your spot in memory.
- Many languages have values that are like local
and copied types of values.
So you mentioned VB.net,
which like the integer and float values,
numbers and things like that.
If you assign one, it's a copy of a thing.
Whereas Python, literally everything is a pointer.
This corkboard conspiracy theory thing.
There's no concept of, oh, I create this on the stack,
and when the function returns, it's gone.
Everything is a-- even just an integer is a pi long star
down in the runtime.
And so that's a bit of a mental thing people
got to get used to, just like how much--
Because when you come from a language like C++ or something,
pointers and these reference type of ideas
are like right in your face, right?
Like you see this, like I just said, pi long star,
like the star means it points at things.
Without the star, it's on the stack, right?
It's a, you are way down in those details.
Whereas in Python, you never see pointers.
Like you could imagine, like there's no such,
like we don't even have pointers in Python.
But the irony is like literally everything
is basically managed in that on the heap reference type
style of work.
So.
- Exactly.
- Yeah, that's something I wish I knew.
- Sorry, go ahead.
- No, I just wish I knew that earlier as well.
Go ahead.
- Yeah, and of course then people come from C++
and say like, oh cool, that's easy.
So it's all pointers.
Well, once again, Python being Python, not quite.
Because it's actually technically called a reference,
not a pointer, and that's important
because a Python reference or a Python value
has two things.
It has, yes, it does have a pointer,
at least if we're talking about CPython,
but it also has a reference counter,
which is itself an integer, and that's adding overhead.
So if you ever do actually go down
and look at the sizes of things,
you will notice that your base value
has this additional overhead of two numbers.
One of them is your pointer,
and the other one is your reference counter,
because it has a reference count in garbage collection.
- Yeah, often a lot more, I think trying to,
I guess I could check, but either an integer
or a single character, I can't remember which,
is 28 bytes, right?
And that's in C, the single character
would be one or two bytes,
and the integer would be two, four, or eight, right?
So there's just a big difference in the way you got to,
sort of like the implications of that.
Related to that, kind of moving on to the next,
before we move on.
The other thing that you mentioned,
and I think is also a really big deal in this area,
is the scope of a variable.
And so in some languages,
you have very fine-grained control
of the lifetime of a variable by where you declare it.
So for example, if you declare a variable in C++
or VB.NET or whatever, in a if block,
when you leave the if block, the thing goes away.
Like if there's curly braces around it
in a lot of languages,
Like that is the lifetime of the variable,
the innermost bracket of curly braces.
Like outside of a loop, the thing goes away.
In Python, we don't have that.
And that's kind of the variable persists
and lives afterwards, right?
Which is interesting.
- Yeah.
- Difference.
- Yeah, because the garbage collection
is something you're never supposed to have to deal with.
So even if you called delete on something,
it's not necessarily guaranteed to be cleaned up when you expect
it like the language is going to handle things when it when it
sees fit for whatever reason. So yeah, there's only to my
knowledge, there's only three, there's only actually three
scopes in Python, there's global level, there's module level. And
there's I need a Mac, it's a little Yeah, pedantic. And then
you have function level.
Classes are not their own scope.
Classes actually do not--
a class exists in the global level.
And whenever you have an attribute sitting on a class
or sitting on an instance, it's actually in a dictionary--
unless using slots, I'm not going into that--
actually sitting in a dictionary that is a part
of that object in memory.
>>Yep.
It's special.
But it works out.
It's just something you gotta kind of get used to.
- Definitely. - Yeah.
All right, next one.
Ducks.
(duck quacks)
(both laugh)
- Duck typing, yeah.
And it's, this is where I went haywire
when I was doing that Hungarian notation I mentioned,
'cause I'm thinking, I'm being so clever.
I'm just putting the name of the,
or the type in the name, and then I know it.
But unfortunately, when you're coming from a strongly typed language, you're actually,
it's easy to underestimate just how much strong typing can actually hold us back in some cases,
because we start thinking about what a thing is rather than what it can do.
And we see this in Java, like you have to have these complex inheritance patterns,
because you want to be able to say, well, this thing is, it is this, this, it matches this interface,
you know, it does this particular thing.
Python's take is I really don't care what it is.
As long as I can interact with it
according to a particular kind of set of assumptions,
then I don't care what it's really doing under the hood.
And this can be really beneficial
because it allows you to create new things
that act like integers, even though they're not integers,
or new things that act like Booleans that aren't Booleans,
new things that act like strings that aren't strings.
Python doesn't care.
It's just interfacing with those objects
on the basis of how it can use them
and what certain things are going to return.
That's all it cares about.
So the concept of duck typing being it doesn't care whether it's a duck
or a picture of a duck or a statue of a duck or a moose in a duck suit,
as long as you can interact with it in the way it needs.
It's good.
Yeah, that's very funny.
It talks like a duck and quacks like a duck and probably a duck.
Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, it's very freeing once you get that
because you don't have to muck about
with all this weird inheritance anymore.
It's like, well, it does what I need.
And that's the important part.
- There is certainly less inheritance
and less complex hierarchies in Python.
Not that there's not an important place
for object-oriented programming in classes.
They're just often simpler.
- A lot more straightforward, definitely.
And it frees us up to then,
The saying I coined a couple of years ago
during a conference talk was that you needed to find objects
by their constituent data.
So when you're writing a class or you're designing an object,
you're thinking about what is it storing?
Like what sort of state, if you think in a functional way,
or what sort of data am I really putting in here?
And you can design based off of that.
And then you can think about, well,
how do I want, how does the system need to interact with that data?
But you don't really have to sit there and think about encapsulating behavior,
because that's not really the point.
The point is you think about, like with example I use is we always see the
example of I'm going to create a class called cat and a class called dog and
they inherit from animal.
And that's actually a really lousy example we need to stop using because,
um, that's starting from a concept of behavior.
Well, it barks, it meows, it eats, it whatever.
And in real systems, what we think about is,
I have a, you know, someone designing a game.
I have a monster.
Okay, what is a monster?
Well, it's a bad guy.
No, no, no, no, not what it does.
What is it?
Well, it's a collection of statistics about the character,
you know, like how much strength it has
and how much health it has.
okay, that is not a monster, that's an entity.
You don't have to put what it's doing into that code,
it is this collection of information.
And when you shift your thinking to a data-first mindset
about object-oriented, then you find that you can actually
use it with functional paradigms
that are sometimes a lot easier to reason about.
- Yeah, the grouping together of data is an important part.
I would say the most extreme example of duck typing
in Python is maybe a couple areas,
and they all seem to revolve around the magic methods
or the Python data types, like the dunder methods, right?
- I love those.
- Yeah, I know.
So I could have a function, which I could call,
or I could have a class that implements dunder call,
is a callable, but it's actually an instance of an object.
But as far as Python is concerned, it doesn't matter.
It can call it and pass parameters
to the thing it called.
And there's no real type that disambiguates those two things.
Like, one is a function type.
One is a class with a particular method on it.
But they work just fine.
And that's a pretty extreme example.
Another one would be, I have a list I can iterate,
or I have something that implements the iterator pattern
through the dunder methods, right?
Like the dunder iter and so on.
- Right, well, yeah, one of the classes,
one of the examples in the book I gave was like a cafe queue
so a queue of customers in a line
and I wrote it as an iterable
but there was all this additional stuff in there.
It wasn't just a basic list, there was more to it than that.
But because I implemented as an iterable,
I didn't care, I could use it like I could use a list.
But it was able to do this additional work with the data
behind the scenes that made it just easier to use the,
to reason about this line of customers.
- Right, then you get generator methods
with the yield keyword and yield from
and like all sorts of stuff.
You get pytest fixtures that allow you to set up
and tear down without actually writing,
try finally blocks and all these things.
A lot of interesting places.
While I was thinking about this conversation
and this topic in particular,
I ran across an article called
static duck typing in Python with protocols.
How's that to like crash two ideas together?
- Yeah, it's well, and it's,
well, when we look at data types,
it's like the way Python even does its data types is,
Yeah, you can say that you want to say, okay, this is a list
and you can type it as a list,
but you can also just actually type it as an iterable
and basically tell Python what you care about.
Do you really care that it's a list?
Probably not.
You care that it's an iterable
that you can work with similar to a list?
And like, how are you gonna use it?
That's what you ask yourself
and you base your annotations around that.
And so you can say, well, like here, measurement-like,
I want it to be usable as a measurement.
I don't really care what it is.
It doesn't need to be this particular type of class.
And so that's moving from, like we were talking about,
moving from Java thinking into Python thinking is,
well, it's not what it is, it's what it does.
- Yeah, a lot of the types people put down are like,
I need to treat it like some duck type in situation.
So it needs to have these attributes about it.
And so let's try to put that aspect of it
into the formal static typing rather than earlier.
Yeah.
OK.
Maybe a quick audience question or a bit of feedback
here before we move on to the next one.
It's relevant.
Nick says, early in my Python journey,
I wish I had gotten a better understanding of all
the intricacies, differences, and use cases for various data
structures, like set versus list, right?
versus dictionary.
And those are certainly,
even if you've done programming before,
maybe that environment language
didn't deeply embrace these data structures.
So certainly those are table stakes
for being good at Python.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And use cases sits the nail on the head
because it's like, what's the difference between them?
Well, you know, it's a collection.
And so maybe that's all you care about.
But I find myself using all of them in different cases
'cause it's like, all right, I never need to add
or remove things from it, that's probably a tuple.
Or I need to be able to hash it, use it as an immutable,
that's a tuple.
Or I need to be able to see what's in group A
and not in group B, that's a set.
Or I care about the order, that's a list.
Or I wanna be able to associate two things,
that's a dictionary.
So knowing your different data structures is helpful.
And it's tricky because Python's data structures
aren't really all that unique,
but they have different names
than maybe you're used to in other languages.
So you come across lists and what is that?
Well, it's a C++ vector or a JavaScript array.
Which is where it's helpful to come back to Python
kind of with a fresh mind.
It's like, what is this?
Not assuming that things have the same names,
but being prepared to get a different vocabulary.
- Yeah, for sure.
All right, what's next one?
Iteration, iterables, iterators living.
- Yes, yeah.
I was working in some code last year
and I came across something that just,
I was, I cringed and then I laughed out loud
because this was written,
so this code was written by who I best guess
university data scientists.
So, you know, to their favor, this is not a software engineer.
Um, and what they, what they had written and they could tell it had been
a refactored a few times, but I am not kidding.
They had said, all right, so I have this thing that it's iterable.
It was already something that we could use in a loop.
And we'll come back to what that is for anyone who's curious,
but we have this iterable.
I'm going to convert that into a list.
By the way, we're talking about in this case, tens of thousands
of items in that list.
I'm going to convert that into a list.
Then on the next line, they say for index comma value in
enumerate, enumerate the thing that lets you get the indexes
as well, enumerate that list. And then it says, you know, and
then it accessed the value, again, inside the loop by going
to the original list and accessing using the index.
And I just sat there and I kind of half laugh half cry.
there is so much, this is so convoluted. And I, all I had to
do was take all that logic out and just say for item in
original iterable, and then item was the thing. And, but what had
happened was that they didn't understand what was really
happening in a for loop, they were still thinking C, or C++.
And the thing is that Python has these two magic methods called
iter and next. Iter just says, give me the thing I can use that
has the next operator that knows where it is in the list. I'm
gonna leave it at that. And the next just says, give me the next
item. Yeah, that's all it is. Just give me the next item. All
a for loop ever does is it grabs that is it calls that next is
like, give me the next thing. All right, good. I'm done. Give
me the next thing. Give me the next thing. Give me the next
thing. You can write entire classes that behave like this
even generate the value at that moment. It's called lazy
iteration, you can actually generate the next value when
it's one and not a moment sooner, which means you only ever have one value in memory sometimes.
Yeah.
And then you can just put that in the for loop. And you come up with any arbitrary name
for when you access it for each thing in iterable, name thing, whatever you want, and then use
it directly in your code. And I wish someone had told me that a lot sooner. I've discovered
that about three years into my journey. I'm like, Oh my gosh, I've been making lists out
of everything. And I've been doing waste.
- Yeah, and you know, the yield keyword,
obviously is a super easy way to do that lazy iteration
that you talk about, but it also is really important
for things like databases, right?
- Yeah.
- Talk SQL alchemy, right?
I'm gonna do a query, I could call the all method
and turn it into an in-memory list,
or I could, if I don't need that,
I could just loop over it, right?
And kind of read it cursor style,
potentially stop talking to the database halfway through.
- Exactly.
Oh, I found what I needed,
I don't need the rest of the data, exactly.
Yeah, exactly.
Interesting.
Cool.
Yeah, I think iteration is quite--
it's settled, because there's only two types of loops
in Python.
And usually, we're using the for loops.
But the variations, there's just so many of them, right?
You can have your for loop that just goes over a thing.
But what if you need the index like you described?
Not for this improper use.
but sometimes you actually still do need the index.
So you could do enumerate of that thing and get a tuple,
but you could take it to another level,
do tuple unpacking and say like index,
comma value in enumerate of things, right?
And you get it back and you're just-
- You can unpack a dictionary too.
You can unpack a tuple with that in the dictionary.
There's this whole library
and it built in a Python called iter tools.
And if you ever have, you know, 10 minutes over coffee,
just pull up the documentation for iter tools
and just kind of scroll through.
There's some neat stuff.
like you can, you can like, find every possible combination of
three different lists. I just give it three different lists.
And this is one that will take all three of them just give you
every single possible combination of it actually use
it in the book. And it's just there's all these neat things
you can do with iterables. And some of them don't even have to
stop there are infinite variables where you can just say
I want to get this sequence repeating infinitely 123123123123123123.
And two lines of code and you can have that repeating forever.
And if you're using an old fashioned while loop
or an old fashioned C++ style for loop,
that would be multiple lines of code.
Like, you don't have to keep track of the state
and all that stuff.
Python is two lines.
- Yeah, it's amazing.
Yeah, so there's a lot of depth,
even though it seems so simple when you first look at it.
Closely related to that are comprehensions.
- Yes.
- Like a list comprehension, right?
People often see a list comprehension
or a set comprehension and go, especially
a list comprehension, they're like, oh, that's
the same thing as a for loop.
Before the for loop, I create a list.
And then in the for loop, I add the thing to the list.
And these are the same.
They may have the same outcome, but they're not actually
the same thing.
The runtime performance is not the same.
The bytecode implementation of those two things
is not the same.
This is like a nonstop debate I have on YouTube
whenever I put a video and mention something
about list comprehensions.
They're like, that's just a for loop.
It's not actually just a for loop.
It's like a kind of accomplishing the same thing.
But we now have for potentially 3.12,
Carl Meyer put out a PEP 709
called inlined list comprehensions,
which are supposed to take some of the
mostly invisible behind the scene implementation
and make comprehensions two times faster.
I believe they're already faster than this looping story
I talked about, but this would make them faster still,
which is pretty cool.
Yeah.
- Wow. How does this syntax work?
I'm curious.
Is this just like-
- So the syntax is unchanged.
Yeah. So here's the magic of list comprehensions.
That's funky that people maybe aren't aware of.
Is it, it used to actually create a list comprehension
object that implemented the loop in a function.
And then it called that function
as if you'd nested a function to create the isolation
of the list comprehension.
So that created a stack frame, that created an object,
then it did function in direction,
and all those things made it slower than it needs to be.
So now they create a new load fast
and clear byte code operation
that stores the state of the function,
then does the list comprehension,
and then pops it back off the stack to unwind it.
So anyway, comprehensions are interesting.
I just wanted to, this is like kind of a brand new thing
- That's cool.
- That's coming along that might be interesting for people.
- Well, I think it's worth mentioning then
that what a list comprehension really is.
So like if I unpack it, 'cause people think,
people use that term very loosely a lot of times,
they say, "Well, it's a list comprehension."
But what is a list comprehension?
And if I unpack that, what it really is,
is it is a generator expression
that is being unpacked into a list.
So what's a generator expression?
A generator expression is a type of generator.
What's a generator?
A generator is a function or type of function
that is itself iterable.
So that's where this is critical,
is that a generator, you can write a generator
that when you call it,
you mentioned that earlier, this yield keyword.
And so you can do whatever you want in this function.
You can write it however much logic you want.
Every time you hit the yield statement, it will return that value,
and then it's going to wait for the next call,
the next iteration of it, like the next call to next on that generator.
And then it's going to run through again until it hits a yield.
And then it's going to stop, return that value, and wait again.
And you can do some incredible things with these.
But once you understand the generator, which are incredibly powerful tools,
then you can write a generator expression, which is, I discovered later,
a generator expression is to a generator as a lambda is to a function.
It's an anonymous generator.
That's all it is.
So a lambda is just a very small inline anonymous function.
It has the logic, it can take in some values, return some values.
It's a lot simpler, a lot shorter.
and you do it right in place.
So you're not having to go off somewhere and write a different function and come back.
That's why we have anonymous functions, so that we can just do it like,
like you see there at the bottom, reduce and just some rules right there,
instead of writing a separate function.
GenerateExpression, same sort of thing.
We're writing some generator logic.
It's shorter.
It's creating a generator, but it's just a lot smaller.
And if you just wrap it in parentheses, you can use it as a generator.
But when you change those parentheses to be square brackets, what happens is you're running that generator,
and then you're loading all the values into the list.
If you do it in curly braces, you're creating a set, or if you're doing the same thing, but you are...
the return value in each step is a key value pair, then you're going to create a dictionary.
But all you're really doing is unpacking that generator into a data structure.
So sometimes you want to think when you're mucking about with these, do you really want the data structure when you're done? Or do you just want to go over the values? Because maybe you could generate a generator expression?
Yeah, the difference is super subtle. Like you have square brackets, or do you have parentheses around the expression, but the effect or consequence of that is very significant at runtime, right? It's kind of like that example, you talked about putting everything in a list and looping over it or just looping over it, right?
Exactly. And because these are these are these one liners and
we as coders tend to get addicted to these one liners,
it's like, Oh, look at all the cool things I could do. I have a
couple examples in the book, some real list comprehensions
I've come across, or some colleagues that might have come
across where it's like, it's multiple lines. And that's,
that's a bad list comprehension. That's a bad generator
expression, just like you don't want to have a multi line lambda
at that point, write a function. generator expressions and
and lambdas are supposed to be these really small,
short in place bits of logic.
And if it's getting complicated,
write the full size thing.
It's a lot easier to debug.
If nothing else is easy to debug,
but it's also a lot easier to read.
- It is, it is.
Just while we're kind of ranting on these things,
like I wish there was a way to specify a sort
in these list comprehensions,
generator expressions and maybe not the generators
'cause that gets tricky.
But so often I find myself, I'm doing a list comprehension
and then I got to turn around and sort it.
Like if it could just add that in there
that would make me happy, but all right.
Moving on, packaging, deciding on packaging
and all that right up front.
Actually, before we get to that, I guess the other one
that you threw in here is virtual environments.
Indeed. - Yeah.
Virtual environments, use them.
I avoided them for years because I thought,
oh, these are scary, I don't understand them.
They're not scary.
I'm actually gonna hijack something I learned
from one of my guests on my own podcast recently
is what containers actually are, by the way.
Docker containers, I swear this is relevant.
You know what a Docker container actually is?
Is it's the folder on your operating system.
And it's just changing the root.
So when you're working inside of it,
it's just changing the root.
There's a bunch of magic logic around that,
but that's all it is.
like it's pretending that that that that folder is the root,
and it's running things accordingly. That's all a
virtual environment really is doing either. So there's not a
lot of Python about the path. Yeah, yeah, there's not a lot of
difference in a virtual environment in the Docker image,
like they're the same fundamental concept. So all
you're doing is you're creating this little spot on your this
little folder. And you're saying these are my Python packages.
And unless you tell it otherwise, don't go looking
anywhere else. These are the ones I want to use. And they're super easy to create. It's
like one line to create a virtual environment. And it lets you maintain exactly the packages
you want for that particular situation. And it's great.
>> It is. Yeah. It's -- once you get used to it, it's great. I remember it being frustrating at
the beginning. You're like, ah, I don't remember exactly how do I create the environment? How do
How do I activate it?
How do I know?
Do I really need this?
And yeah, I don't start any projects
without having them as just straight up,
using them right away.
Like, absolutely.
- Yeah.
- I probably created for projects
that don't even have external dependencies
'cause I was just like on autopilot.
Like, oh, actually I didn't need that,
but whatever, it's still good to have.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It's to control which Python version you're using
and then you can install whatever packages you want
and you don't not worry about messing up your system
for user scope packages.
And a coworker recently said,
"I dream of the day when I can actually remember
"how to activate this."
But it's actually really easy.
So assuming you know the name of the folder,
'cause you can pick the name of the folder
you use for your virtual environment.
Traditionally it's called like them, V-E-N-V.
And here's the thing to remember,
you don't actually have to activate
your virtual environment.
Put that in your mind for a moment.
you can run things directly in the virtual environment.
So in Unix systems like Linux and Mac, there's a bin folder.
So vim/bin/ and then whatever Python,
whatever Python executable you wanna run.
It could be Python, it could be pip,
it could be your own package.
You can actually just navigate into that bin folder.
And so I can say vim/bin/pip, and I've got the pip,
and that knows to only work within its virtual environment.
It's not gonna break out of that container.
Once you understand that,
here's where the activate script is, then bin activate.
It lives in the bin file.
And if you're on Windows,
the only thing you're changing is you're going from bin
to capital S scripts.
And then the things have an ending of like either .bat
or .ps1 depending on what shell you're using.
But that's the structure of a virtual environment.
And once you understand that, they're no longer scary.
- Yeah.
My RC file for my user profile on my Mac
is just full of, here's the Python executable
in some virtual environment, and here's the script
and commands to send to it for little aliases and stuff.
And none of those activate the virtual environments.
They just run the Python in the virtual environment
to make all the magic happen.
Another thing I would recommend is people think about
creating aliases that make virtual environments
happier and easier to use.
So for example, and you could do this in PowerShell
on Windows, you can obviously do it near RcFiles
on Mac and Linux.
So for example, I have venv, which is for V-E-N-V,
but I don't want it to accidentally change the directory
and if you haven't, like whatever.
I just have a short version,
so I know it's something slightly different,
but it'll go run the virtual environment
and it'll always remember to add --prompt=."
which will make the virtual environment
not just be called V-E-N-V,
but it'll be called the name of the project that it's in.
So for example, if it's in like,
talk Python, like the virtual environment,
when I activate it,
it will say it's the virtual environment, talk Python.
Right?
And then it activates it.
And then I think,
I think this is almost a bug in Python
that most of the time,
I would say like 49 weeks out of the year,
when I create a virtual environment,
the first thing I hear is warning,
your pip is out of date.
You know, like, okay, well, I'm starting a new project.
How about we start with a new one?
Let's just go with that right now, right?
And so why, I just, that is, I always want the new one.
I don't ever want the old one because this is a brand new.
So I want the new one.
Why don't we fix that?
So my alias then says pip install -u pip setup tools, wheels,
pip tools, et cetera, and just ditches that output.
So like, yeah, right.
Immediately, like I have,
when I create a virtual environment,
it's immediately active and it's immediately named the project
and it's immediately up to date.
So I don't see those silly warnings, at least for a while.
And all I got to remember is type VNV, boom, and that's it.
So if you get into this--
if you just do a few little steps--
I did this too.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, I imagine you did.
And so I just strongly encourage people
to somehow either do this in PowerShell
or do this in their terminal setup,
because that big, long thing to type, that's a hassle.
Three letters is not a hassle.
And it just makes it,
there's something about lowering the friction
that makes it really nice.
- And there's tools you can also install that do it,
but like I recommend just writing your own aliases too,
because everyone's got a slightly different workflow
and set of preferences anyway.
That's why VIMP has so many options.
So writing this yourself, it's super easy
and it teaches you a bit about how it's working
so that you're not surprised at the results.
- Yeah, yeah.
Indeed.
Okay, now packaging.
- Yes, and I'm gonna keep this one super short
because it's a deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep,
deep, deep rabbit hole.
Figure out your packaging day one.
Like you get, I will figure out packaging
before I even figure out what I'm, you know,
how I'm building stuff.
I am just gonna set up a basic hello world
and then I'm gonna get the packaging working
because I actually, and I learned this the hard way.
I built a project once.
It took me one month.
I was very happy with it.
It was gorgeous.
It was a game.
You can actually find it online now.
I was very happy with myself.
And then I spent the next two years
trying to package the darn thing.
Turned out it was impossible to package
because of certain assumptions
that one of the libraries I was using made.
Had I actually tried to package it from the beginning,
I could have saved myself a heck of a lot of time
and just used a different library.
- Yeah.
- So you figure it out from day one.
And then the benefit you get to this is that
then you are constantly,
especially if you're doing out of place testing,
which I strongly recommend, run your tests.
Your tests should not be in your source holder.
Put them separate.
That's gonna force you to actually install your package
into a virtual environment
and then run the test against that package.
This is not as scary as it sounds.
I have a whole, by the way,
if you go to my website, codemouse92.com,
I've got a whole talk on this
called "Escaping the Cardinal Cult."
And I explain how these patterns work.
But when you do it that way,
That means from day one and ever onward,
you are testing your packaging,
you're testing your assumptions
about the working directories and all that,
and you are testing it in the same way
that it's gonna be used on someone else's computer.
So you never again have to have the thing of,
well, it works on my machine,
because all of your tests are depending
on actually installing your package.
So if something breaks, you bring in a dependency
that just doesn't work with your packaging scheme,
you know right away and you can make a decision about it.
- Yeah, that's good advice.
There's a lot of depth to the packaging thing.
I had a whole panel on it.
We're on talk Python not long ago.
Definitely a lot there.
- Oh yeah.
Deep rabbit hole, but you know what?
Don't copy pasta, don't copy paste.
Find out what the things you're using are doing because.
- Yeah.
All right.
Last one.
- Yeah. - Concurrency.
Concurrency, yes, which for years I heard concurrency,
asynchrony, threading, parallelism, multiprocessing,
I heard those all used as synonyms for one another.
They're not.
(laughs)
Completely different things.
So, and actually I have to thank the Go language
for teaching me this.
Thank you, Rob Pike for his talk.
Concurrency and parallelism are not the same thing.
But here's the thing to understand.
concurrency is doing, you're switching between tasks.
You're checking your phone and you're talking to your friend.
Are you doing both at once?
No, you're not reading stuff on Twitter
and listening to what your friend says.
You're actually switching between the two contexts rapidly.
You're not really multitasking,
you're just changing your focus fast enough
that no one ever notices the difference.
That's concurrency.
So you have one CPU or potentially multiple
are involved in this where people get confused.
Python's nice because you're locked
to one CPU for concurrency.
So it's, I'm gonna work on this, then I'll work on this,
then I'll work on this, then I'll work on this.
It doesn't make your code faster.
It'll never make your code faster.
Just like multitasking will not make you get
through your workday faster.
What it's gonna do is it's gonna slow you down,
but it doesn't look like, in some cases,
it'll make your code look faster
because while you're waiting on the user to type in their answer,
this example I use in the book,
while you're waiting on the user to type in their answer to a question,
you're doing some math in the background.
You're I/O blocked, you're waiting on something over which you have no control,
you can do some other work while you wait.
That's concurrency.
And you can do that with asynchrony where Python's handling that multitasking,
or you can do it with threading where the operating system is handling that multitasking.
That's different than parallelism,
which is where you're actually using different CPU cores
and you're doing two things at the same time.
Because you have two different CPUs,
two different cores working in parallel
and they're not depending on one another.
They're not weighted,
so you're doing multiple tasks at once.
Both of them have overhead.
Neither one is a silver bullet for performance.
You're really gonna have to think a lot about it,
but I actually like the GIL for this reason.
Global Interpreter Lock,
a much aligned thing that stops us from getting free multiprocess,
free parallelism, free multiprocessing with every thread.
Because this forces us to actually stop and think,
which thing do I need?
Do I need concurrency or do I need parallelism?
Because you can get both in Python,
but the GIL makes sure that you have to make a decision.
Because if you want multiprocessing,
you're going to have to create different processes,
spin them off, manage them separately.
There's more overhead, but you're gonna have to address
all of those things of how do we share resources,
which is a really snarly topic.
And Python doesn't let you pretend
that that's not gonna be an issue.
It makes you think about that.
- It does make you think about it.
While you can't get more done,
you can't make an individual thing go faster
by using concurrency on it.
You can start a bunch of things that run
outside of your control and outside of your program,
and then get them back, right?
Like I could issue a web request to three API endpoints,
all of them, and then start gathering up the answers
if the first one comes back, right?
You have to think about,
I think the main thing to think about here is
where am I waiting on something else
when you're looking for the async and await type of benefits?
Like am I waiting on a thing?
Could I be doing something while I'm waiting?
an async and await amount, it makes it super easy
to do stuff while you're waiting.
But the program itself is still constrained by the GIL.
And often with async and await,
there's not even a second thread involved, right?
It's just slicing up, time slicing up the current thread.
- Yeah, which I mean, technically is all that's going on
with the threads anyway.
Like when you have multiple threads,
the operating system is now just doing the slicing up.
You're still constrained to one process.
then you need a separate process
if you want to do multiple things.
- Yeah, but like my machine has 10 cores.
It will go across the cores according to OS,
but the effect in Python because of the GIL
means it doesn't actually make any difference.
It's still the same, right?
But if you get multi-processing, then for sure.
So yeah, super, super interesting.
I think one of the things people tell,
I think people say two things.
One, asynchronous programming is so hard
you should never try it.
I hear that all the time.
It's so complicated, it's so hard,
you're going to end up with race conditions, just don't try it.
Mere mortals don't dare.
They only regret.
Maybe if you're doing like signaled events in C++
across hardware notification--
there are scenarios that are super, super tricky.
Using async and await generally don't fall into that.
You write regular code without changing the structure.
You don't have to have callbacks and signals and locks.
You just write regular code, or you have the async stuff
you put away.
It's kind of the end of the story.
And it's not necessarily as simple
as straight up regular programming,
but it's like 10% more.
It's not 10x more.
And I think a lot of people for some--
I don't understand why, but a lot of people,
I think they want to feel like I've conquered this dragon.
And if I'm gonna tell other people how to do it
or what to do, the first thing I'm gonna tell them
is how hard it is and how daunting it is.
And like, yet I've conquered it
and now I will help you, right?
That doesn't do people favor.
- Right, they wanna feel good about themselves.
- I guess so, but I feel like threading and parallelism
lands deeply in that space where people are like,
oh, it's super hard.
I can help you with that.
- It's not, it really isn't.
But where it's hard is you have to be prepared
to really think about why do I need it?
And if I can briefly say, I have two entire chapters
in this book on that topic.
And I pick one example, and it has nothing
to do with waiting for a web page to download,
because that is both overused and something
that most of us don't need.
And I apply synchrony.
I apply threading.
I apply parallelism.
And you actually see all those little concerns of,
how do you handle deadlocking, live locking?
How do you handle starvation?
How do you handle the producer-consumer problem?
How do you handle the fact that, huh,
I just added 15 multi-processing workers,
and now this thing is way slower.
Why?
I go into all of that.
And I think that's one thing I wanted to say
is, when I was writing this book, that was the thing.
That was my chief delight, was coming up
with examples for all of the topics,
from the simplest all the way to the most complicated,
where I did not hold back on the relevant complexity.
My list comprehensions were the snarliest list
comprehensions you're ever gonna find in the tutorial.
You know, my, and I have, I go into recursion.
I go into, yes, I go into meta classes,
whichever one's afraid of.
I go into all of these things.
I dig into them, but the complexity is always relevant.
So you're only gonna get the complexity from the topic
and you're gonna understand where all these bits
and pieces interplay.
But the complexity coming in from other irrelevant topics
I try to keep to a minimum so you can really focus
on understanding not just the happy path of coding,
not just the happy path of like, okay,
well, you can async this, look how easy that was.
Well, it's not easy, but it's also not painfully hard.
You just have to be prepared to think through
those different factors.
And so I focused a lot of time on really helping you learn
how to think through those factors
as it relates to your code.
- Excellent.
It sounds like a bit of the Einstein philosophy.
Simple as possible, but not simpler.
- Right, exactly.
- Yeah, cool.
I have no last thoughts on the async stuff.
Like I think a sprinkling of async and await
makes massive difference for a lot of scenarios.
And that's pretty straightforward.
If you're gonna try to write trio
or some full on framework that deeply coordinates
and understands it, like, yeah, that's super, super hard.
Again, some of the signaling stories I talked about
with C code, that's super hard.
But this stuff, it's pretty approachable.
So don't forget to check it out.
All right.
Well, I think that's it for our things we wish we knew.
If we had more time, we could wish upon more things.
But this pretty much--
- Definitely.
- Covers it, doesn't it?
- Yeah, I think so.
- Nice.
All right, well, before you get out of here,
let me ask you the final two questions.
If you're gonna write some code,
what editor to use?
- Yeah, you know, for the longest time I was a VS Code guy.
I still love it, but I broke down
and I bought PyCharm Professional and I love that
because I do a lot of refactoring
and PyCharm saves my butt so much
when it comes to refactoring that I fell in love with it.
And I can't imagine working without it now.
- I hear you. - So I'm spoiled.
(laughing)
- It does surprise me how people,
not just a PyCharm comment, but in general,
there's a lot of people who are like,
oh, I don't really wanna get like a new computer
or I don't really wanna pay 20 bucks for this thing.
That would save you thousands of dollars worth of time
as you go for it, you know, like, so I'm glad.
- Splurge on your tools.
As far as your budget will allow you,
and I've been on both ends of that spectrum,
as your budget allows you, splurge on your tools
because they're what you're gonna be spending
most of the day using anyway.
And the last thing you want is something
you're gonna be getting splinters on, so.
- Indeed.
And then notable PyPI package, something like,
oh, this thing's awesome, I just ran across XYZ.
- Oh, well, you know, I guess I have two.
One would be, I think my favorite,
and this has certainly gotten plenty of press,
but I love it, it's the Hypothesis Testing Library.
I love Hypothesis.
Hypothesis is fantastic.
It will revolutionize the way you write tests.
It's not as scary as the documentation makes it look.
If you click on what you can generate and how, start there.
I go through the quick start guide and then go right to this.
It's so cool because you just write these strategies.
I'm like, "Okay, this is what
my data is supposed to look like."
Then your test is going to try and break your code.
I love hypothesis.
It's going to throw all sorts of garbage at you
until it finds a way to break your code,
and then it's going to go, "Hey,
here's the simplest thing I could find that blew up your code."
Fix it. Lovely.
>> Nice.
>> So much fun. The other favorite package I have is one of my own,
I'm actually a branch detective.
I built this at two jobs ago.
And basically we had the problem
where we had these diverging branches
where we had no choice but to completely diverge them.
And we were cherry picking back and forth.
And there was always this,
which commits are in this one that aren't in this one.
When you're doing cherry picking
your hashes are complete garbage now.
So I built this tool that allows you to see
what's in one branch that's not in another branch.
any branch arbitrarily.
You can specify date range.
It knows how to handle cherry picks.
It knows how to handle merge revisions or filter them out.
And you can even pass it the dash M flag
and just get this nice markdown.
If you're using conventional commits,
we'll just spit out this markdown
that you can then copy and paste into your PR and say,
hey, here's the summaries of the 26 commits
I'm putting in here.
So I use this every single day
and I've improved it for every project I'm on so far.
And I just, I love it.
It's my favorite, one of my favorite things ever built.
- So you kind of wrote set for get, right?
Like you can say, what's in the set, subtract that set.
Show me those things, yeah.
- Exactly, like what's here, that's not there.
- Yeah, cool.
All right, Jason, well, thanks for being here.
Final call to action.
People will get their Python better, what do you tell them?
- Yes, yeah, so Dead Simple Python
available from wherever you buy books, but especially if you go to
no starch.com, you can get this comes in ebook or in physical
book form. And hey, you know what, I wrote it and I refer to
it every single day because this is the book I wish I had had.
And my favorite little feature of this is that I have a thing
in the back with every single command for the debugger. Also
have every single Dunder method is also documented in here,
which even the Python docs didn't do that. This is the
entire core language bar nothing explained for the existing coder. So
check this out from no star stock. Awesome. Well thanks for taking the time for being
here and enjoy the chat. Thank you so much it's been a pleasure. Yeah you bet.
See you later.